# Legal Agreement and Disclaimers for Dublr and OmniToken

By electing to mint, buy, sell, gift, transmit, store, or otherwise use Dublr tokens (collectively, by electing to use the Dublr token, or by electing to use any functionality implemented by the Dublr or OmniToken smart contract), you agree to all of the following:

**Forward-looking statements:** You agree that nothing in the Dublr or OmniToken documentation or source code can or will be construed as financial advice, financial guidance, an asset prospectus, or a financial prediction. Any forward-looking statements in the Dublr or OmniToken documentation or source are purely speculation, and should not be relied upon as a prediction of market behavior.

**Functionality:** The Dublr smart contract implements much greater functionality than a standard ERC20 token. It supports many different token APIs for broad compatibility (ERC20, ERC777, ERC1363, ERC4524, EIP2612), and it also contains a decentralized exchange (DEX). Therefore, the DUBLR token is not an asset with limited functionality, it is a utility token with extensive functionality. However, there is no warranty, express or implied, about the functionality of the DUBLR token or the Dublr DEX.

**Legal use of Dublr only:** You will not use the Dublr token, the Dublr `buy` or `sell` functions, or any of the OmniToken APIs, to launder money or circumvent Anti Money Laundering (AML) laws, or to engage in any form of criminal or illegal activity. You will follow all tax laws, financial laws, and security/exchange laws of any legal jurisdiction in which you use the Dublr token. In particular, you confirm that the Dublr token is not considered an unregistered or illegal security, and that the Dublr smart contract is not considered an unregistered or illegal exchange, by the laws of any legal jurisdiction in which you hold or use the Dublr token. Also remember that like all ERC20 tokens, all actions taken with Dublr tokens or the Dublr smart contract are logged and visible on the blockchain forever, and are therefore traceable by government and law enforcement.

**Tax law abidance:** In some jurisdictions, such as the United States, any use, transfer, or sale of a cryptocurrency token is a taxable event (in the US, cryptocurrency is taxed as property). It is your responsibility to record the purchase price and fair market value at time of sale, in ETH or your local currency equivalent, for each use, transfer, or sale of Dublr tokens or OmniToken tokens you own. You agree to abide by all applicable tax laws, and to pay all taxes due.

**Security and auditing:** You acknowledge that the usage of any smart contract carries an inherent risk of security problems and vulnerabilities. Every effort has been made to ensure that the Dublr contract (and the OmniToken contract) are ultra-secure, bug-free, and safe to use, including via unit testing, static analysis, auditing, and some formal verification methods; however, it is the responsibility of each user of the Dublr contract to verify for themselves that the Dublr and OmniToken contracts are secure before utilizing these contracts. Full sourcecode is provided on [GitHub](https://github.com/Dublr/Dublr) for Dublr and OmniToken, and this source may be verified on Polygonscan to legitimately represent the deployed contract.

**Fees:** By buying or selling Dublr tokens using the built-in decentralized exchange (DEX), buyers agree to pay minting fees if new tokens are minted (minting fees are an irreversible exchange of the buyer's supplied ETH value for Dublr tokens), and sellers agree to pay market maker fees if tokens are sold (market maker fees are irreversibly deducted from the ETH amount sent from the buyer to the seller when tokens in a seller's order are sold to the buyer). As a buyer or seller, you acknowledge that there will be no refund of minting fees or market maker fees under any circumstances.

**No warranty, and indemnification:** The creator of Dublr makes no warranty, express or implied, as to the safety, security, price, value, exchangeability, or utility for any purpose, of Dublr tokens or the Dublr smart contract. You assume full responsibility for any loss or damage incurred from the usage of the Dublr tokens or the Dublr smart contract, including the underlying OmniToken library. You release the creator of Dublr and OmniToken, and the operators of any exchanges that support the usage of Dublr tokens, from all legal responsibility related to your use of Dublr tokens and the Dublr smart contract. By using Dublr tokens or the Dublr smart contract, you agree that neither you nor anyone representing your interests will ever initiate legal proceedings against the creator of Dublr. 

**Not a store of value; no claimed value:** You agree that the Dublr token is simply a virtual asset, without any justifiable equivalent monetary value or utility other than what you personally assign to it, and that the Dublr token is not a store of value. The mint price chosen at launch is an arbitrary number, and the mint price curve is an arbitrary function, that neither bears any relationship with any real or justifiable value of Dublr tokens, nor dictates the actual price at which Dublr tokens may be sold (beyend setting an upper bound on sale price of Dublr tokens). Dublr tokens have no claimed value, either at issue or after issue. You should not construe the mint price or the sale price of Dublr tokens, as implemented by the Dublr smart contract, to represent any particular fiat-equivalent or monetarily-equivalent value. In particular any user interface (including the official Dublr dapp) that allows a user to buy or sell DUBLR tokens may display a fiat equivalent amount next to ETH, MATIC, and/or DUBLR balances (e.g. `2.97 ETH (≈4868.99 USD)`). This is for informational and utility purposes only, and should not be construed to mean that the token indicated, whether ETH, MATIC, DUBLR, or other, has any actual redeemable value in fiat currency, or that the displayed amount of ETH or DUBLR is of equivalent value to the displayed amount of fiat currency.

**No guarantee of resale value:** As an ERC20-compatible token, Dublr may be used or traded just like any ERC20-compatible token; however, there is no guarantee that sufficient liquidity will exist on any trading platform, including the Dublr DEX, other DEXes, or other centralized exchanges, to satisfy buy or sell orders at any given price, or to make the sale of Dublr tokens profitable. Furthermore, security issues, unforeseen market events, recessions, flash crashes due to runaway automated trading, or rampant speculation may drive down the price of Dublr tokens, potentially even to zero, on any or all trading platforms. Therefore, there is no guarantee that any purchased Dublr tokens will ever be worth anything, will be usable for any purpose, or will be redeemable for any amount of another currency such as ETH.

**No ICO; no promise of profits by the issuer:** There is no ICO for DUBLR tokens -- tokens are issued on-demand by minting when there is insufficient supply of tokens for sale below the mint price. The creator of Dublr makes no representation or claim as to the profitability of Dublr tokens. No profit or return is guaranteed, promised, or predicted as a result of the purchase or use of Dublr tokens. It is impossible to predict actual market behavior, and Dublr tokens can sell at any price below the mint price. The name "Dublr" only implies the mint price doubles every 90 days; it does not imply that the saleable value of Dublr ever doubles. The mint price is only an *upper* bound to price (enforced by increasing total supply, which is inherently deflationary); there is no *lower* bound acting to increase the price of Dublr tokens. Therefore, Dublr tokens may lose arbitrary amounts of value at any time, but may not gain value without limit. The actual future price of Dublr tokens is governed by market forces, which are unpredictable. Purchasing cryptocurrency tokens is an inherently risky activity, and you agree that all responsibility for purchasing or using Dublr tokens is borne by you as the purchaser. Any value that you choose to associate with Dublr tokens is your own responsibility, and carries inherent risk of unpredictability and volatility.

**No expectation or promise of profits through the efforts of others; no common enterprise; no investment contract:** The fees collected from the sale and minting of Dublr tokens are not used to fund any further development of the Dublr token or the Dublr smart contract, or for ongoing maintenance of the Dublr smart contract, or for promotion of the Dublr smart contract or the Dublr token. All development of the Dublr token and the Dublr smart contract was completed before any fees were collected, and the Dublr smart contract runs fully autonomously on the blockchain, without intervention, and without the ability for the contract to be re-deployed at the same address: the creator of Dublr can make no further code changes or improvements to the deployed Dublr smart contract. Furthermore, the creator of Dublr will not engage in ongoing efforts to promote Dublr tokens after the initial launch announcement (at which time there were no public holders of DUBLR tokens). Therefore, no benefit is realized to holders of Dublr tokens through the fees collected from the sale and minting of Dublr tokens, collected fees do not fund any business activities, common enterprise, or ongoing development or maintenance efforts related to the Dublr smart contract. If you purchase DUBLR tokens, you agree that the success of your purchase does not depend upon any ongoing, continued, or sustained efforts of the creator of Dublr, and that you are only purchasing individual token assets, and not investing in a common enterprise. Purchasing DUBLR tokens is not investment, because there is no investment contract associated with DUBLR tokens that protects an investor's financial investment in these tokens, and there can be no expectation of future profits from DUBLR tokens through the efforts of others.

**No expectation of profits from the holding of DUBLR tokens by the creator of Dublr:** The creator of Dublr is not able to benefit from their own efforts as a result of holding the same class of digital assets as those being distributed to the public, because the creator of Dublr minted no DUBLR tokens at smart contract creation time, and holds no DUBLR tokens. Therefore, there is no expectation that the creator of Dublr would promote their own interests or generate profit from the holding of DUBLR tokens, by seeking to increase or inflate the fair market value of DUBLR tokens.

**No use as a security:** You agree not to bridge or transfer DUBLR tokens to any blockchain or network where DUBLR may be considered a security, and you agree not to add liquidity of DUBLR tokens to an exchange that may be considered to be an exchange (a marketplace for trading securities) by the US SEC or your equivalent government agency. If the DUBLR token is declared to be a security by the US SEC or your equivalent government agency, or if the entire underlying blockchain network where the Dublr smart contract is deployed is declared to be a security by the US SEC or your equivalent government agency, you agree to immediately stop using DUBLR tokens.

**Authoritativeness:** Where there is a disagreement between any documentation associated with the Dublr token or the Dublr smart contract and this legal disclaimer, the legal disclaimers in this section ("Legal Agreement and Disclaimers for Dublr and OmniToken") will be deemed to be authoritative, overriding any conflicting information.

Anything below this line is opinion only.

# Legality (OPINION ONLY)

The following is a simple legal opinion as to the legality of the Dublr token and the Dublr smart contract, based on existing US securities and exchange laws, and legal precedent. However, these opinions may be wrong, and the disclaimers above are authoritative: Dublr may still be considered a security, and/or the Dublr contract may be considered an exchange, in your legal jurisdiction, including in the United States.

**Therefore, the following should not be considered as legal advice or a legal indemnification for usage of Dublr tokens or the Dublr smart contract.** Seek your own legal advice to determine if you can use Dublr in you legal jurisdiction, including in the US. You must abide by all your local securities and exchange laws, and tax laws.

## The Dublr token is not a security by US SEC definition

* By the [Howey test](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/h/howey-test.asp), the Dublr smart contract is not an investment contract, and therefore is not a security, according to the laws of the US SEC:
  * There is _no promise of profit from the purchase of Dublr tokens, and there should be no expectation of profit from the purchase of Dublr tokens_, because Dublr tokens can sell at any price below the mint price. The mint price only provides a hard _upper_ bound to the sale price of tokens, not a lower bound. Token supply is increased on-demand to enforce this upper bound, and minting is an inherently deflationary action.
  * No promise, express or implied, has been given about the profitability of Dublr by the creator of Dublr.
  * There is _no common enterprise_, and no expectation of profit can be *"derived from the efforts of others"*, since the Dublr smart contract, once launched, runs on the blockchain fully autonomously, without supervision or intervention.
    * All development of the Dublr smart contract was completed before any fees were collected. The Dublr token and the Dublr smart contract were not deployed before code completion, so no functionality was available or provided before deployment.
    * Dublr was not deployed as a proxied contract, so the code cannot be updated or changed by the creator of Dublr. After the Dublr smart contract is deployed, no further development or improvement of the deployed Dublr smart contract, to benefit holders of Dublr tokens, is even possible.
    * Purchasers of Dublr tokens cannot expect the asset’s value to increase based on future efforts of a creator or operator.
  * Any efforts by the creator of Dublr after deployment of the Dublr smart contract are purely ministerial or informational (e.g. publishing non-prospectus and non-promotional information via Twitter, for clarification and informational purposes only) and not managerial. No promotional materials will be released after the project is initially announced (which will only make the existence of the Dublr smart contract known, before there are any holders of Dublr tokens). Any further information published about Dublr after users begin to buy Dublr tokens will only provide clarifying information about the nature of the token and smart contract, it will not promote the token or promise future profits.
* The creator of Dublr is not an Active Participant (AP) by the [SEC's definition](https://www.sec.gov/corpfin/framework-investment-contract-analysis-digital-assets), including the following. Once deployed, the Dublr contract is fully decentralized, and the creator of Dublr has no further oversight or active participation over trades. Specifically the creator of Dublr does not satisfy at least the following conditions:
  * "There are essential tasks or responsibilities performed and expected to be performed by an AP, rather than an unaffiliated, dispersed community of network users (commonly known as a "decentralized" network)" -- once deployed, all usage of the Dublr smart contract is decentralized.
  * "An AP has a continuing managerial role in making decisions about or exercising judgment concerning the network or the characteristics or rights the digital asset represents" -- the code of the Dublr contract is fixed, so ability to exercise judgment to change the fundamental logic of the contract after it is deployed.
  * The creator of the Dublr smart contract does not hold any DUBLR tokens; therefore, there can be no expectation by other users that the creator of Dublr will engage in efforts to increase the value of DUBLR tokens.
* All users are informed that there are no profits promised or predicted through the efforts of the creator of Dublr, and that any collected fees fund no common enterprise such as ongoing maintenance or development, via the "Legal Agreement and Disclaimers for Dublr and OmniToken" above. These terms and conditions are linked to from the NatSpec documentation for the public smart contract API (covering low-level calls), and users must check a box to agree to these terms and conditions when using the Dublr UI dapp. Therefore, all Dublr tokens that are bought or minted must be obtained in agreement with these terms and conditions.
* Also by the [Clayton test](https://coinnotes.news/2018/06/07/bitcoin-is-not-a-security-sec-chairman-jay-clayton/), the Dublr token is not a security:
  * During the development of the Dublr smart contract, the creator of Dublr never solicited funds from third parties for a common venture.
  * The creator of Dublr does not promise future rewards to purchasers of DUBLR tokens, and does not warranty the value or fitness of Dublr tokens for any purpose.
* The Dublr token is not a [SAFT (Simple Agreement for Future Tokens)](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/s/simple-agreement-future-tokens-saft.asp), because it is not an investment contract, and no agreement is made to provide future tokens.
  * New tokens are minted immediately, on demand, for buyers when there are no tokens listed for sale at a price below the mint price.
  * Tokens are transferred immediately from sellers to buyers in the case of a sale on the built-in distributed exchange.
* Minting of new coins by the Dublr smart contract is *not an ICO*, because there is no initial offering.
  * Minting is an ongoing process with potentially limitless supply, until 30 doubling periods have passed (~7.5 years), at which time the supply of tokens is fixed forever.
* Dublr token ownership does not constitute equity ownership of the Dublr smart contract or any other asset.
* There is further discussion [here](https://www.sec.gov/corpfin/framework-investment-contract-analysis-digital-assets) about what constitutes a security.

#### Update:

In October 2022, right before Dublr was originally supposed to have been released on Ethereum mainnet, SEC Chairman Gary Gensler suggested that tokens running on the Ethereum network, and even Ethereum itself, [could be securities](https://decrypt.co/109881/gensler-proof-of-stake-ethereum-securities), because:
1. Ethereum's switch to Proof of Stake causes Ethereum transactions to be a security, because staking brings a return of interest, which (according to Gensler) in an "indicium" that Ethereum qualifies as a security under the Howey test.
1. The majority of Ethereum validators (currently 40.1%) run from US IP addresses -- therefore the entire Ethereum network should be considered to be US-based for regulation purposes (and therefore would fall under US SEC jurisdiction, *if* Ethereum is in fact a security.

An attempt to declare the entirety of the Ethereum ecosystem to be a security would effectively declare the entire ecosystem illegal, since it is impossible to collect KYC (Know Your Customer) data, such as verified passport information, for every Ethereum user, when wallet creation is trivially easy and completely anonymous. Declaring all of Ethereum illegal would of course be devastating to the entire cryptocurrency ecosystem; therefore, Gensler's declaration (based only on his own opinion) is extremely problematic, and constitutes harmful government overreach and undemocratic abuse of power.

Gensler's predecessor said that neither Bitcoin nor Ethereum were securities, which created a false sense of security in the Ethereum community. Possibly this was a trojan horse attack by the SEC, but more likely, different people at the SEC interpret the Howey test in different ways. In fact the current CFTC Chair Rostin Behnam disagrees with Gensler, saying he sees ETH to be [a commodity, not a security](https://blockworks.co/cftc-chair-says-ether-is-a-commodity-hints-that-sec-disagrees/).

Despite these disagreements, the SEC has started filing lawsuits against the creators of ERC20 tokens that run on the Ethereum network, including retroactively, for [tokens created](https://cryptobriefing.com/sec-makes-bizarre-claim-about-u-s-jurisdiction-over-ethereum-in-court-filing/) *before* the switch of Ethereum to proof of stake. They launched this lawsuit right after Ethereum switched to proof of stake, which seems to indicate that they were just waiting in the wings to launch this attack against the cryptocurrency world.

The SEC tends to declare its rules through lawsuits, rather than bothering to go through the legislative process to make laws in a fair, open, and democratic way -- and then the lawsuits that they win become legal precedent. This is how most "securities laws" are actually created -- they are not laws, they are legal precedent. And almost nobody ever wins lawsuits launched by the SEC -- they are too powerful to fight. Due to the potential for abuse of power in this sort of system, you can expect more of the above shenanigans to unfold in the future.

However, for now, running on a network other than Ethereum should be fine as long as all of the following are true for the network. Dublr was launched on the Polygon network for these reasons:

1. The network must not rely purely upon Proof of Stake for its consensus algorithm. (Polygon does not use a pure Proof of Stake validation method, it uses a hybrid algorithm.)
1. The network must not be majority-based in the US. (Polygon uses a dynamic set of validators that are voted in or out according to a distributed consensus protocol, and the validators could be anywhere in the world. It does not have a central set of validators like Ethereum does.)
1. The network must not be Ethereum, since whether the Ethereum ecosystem is a security is in question. (Polygon is an L2 network that "bolts onto" Ethereum and is Ethereum compatible, but it does not depend upon or require Ethereum to run, and it has its own native currency and contract storage space.)

For now, in the author's opinion, the Polygon network simply does not qualify as a security. There is no guarantee, however, that the SEC may not declare Polygon to be problematic in the future. As specified in the "Legal Agreement and Disclaimers" above, you agree to stop using the Dublr smart contract and DUBLR tokens if the DUBLR token is ever declared to be a security, or if the network it is deployed upon is ever declared to be a security.

### The Distributed Exchange (DEX) built into Dublr is not an exchange by US SEC definition

* The trading platform built into Dublr is referred to as a DEX only by common convention, and this [should not be taken to imply](https://www.sec.gov/news/public-statement/enforcement-tm-statement-potentially-unlawful-online-platforms-trading) that the Dublr smart contract is registered or regulated by the SEC as a trading platform or exchange.
* Because *the Dublr DEX trades only Dublr tokens, and because Dublr tokens are not securities,* as outlined above, the Dublr smart contract is not an exchange by the [standards of the SEC](https://www.sec.gov/news/public-statement/enforcement-tm-statement-potentially-unlawful-online-platforms-trading), and the Dublr DEX does not serve as an intermediary in securities transactions. The Dublr DEX is a passive communications system that assists in transactions but does not play a role in effecting transactions in securities.
* Exchange Act Rule 3b-16 [specifies](https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/17/240.3b-16) that an exchange "brings together orders for securities of multiple buyers and sellers".
  * The Dublr smart contract presents only _one_ buyer (not multiple buyers) at a time with the opportunity to buy one or more sell orders from one or more sellers.
  * Dublr does not allow buyers to place buy orders, it implements only the sell side of the market, and buyers can elect to purchase sell orders. Therefore Dublr does not perform all the functions commonly performed by an exchange.
  * Dublr sell orders may be canceled at any time by the seller, therefore sell orders on the Dublr DEX do not constitute "firm orders" by some definitions.
* The Dublr DEX does not facilitate or effectuate transactions for the account of others, but rather facilitates peer to peer trades between private parties.
  * The Dublr DEX does not assist parties in negotiating transactions; transactions are fully disintermediated by means of being fully decentralized and fully automated.
  * The owner of the Dublr contract has no ability to directly intermediate in or control any trade between two private parties using the Dublr DEX.
  * No actor "uses" non-discretionary methods to settle transactions using the Dublr DEX.
* There is further discussion [here](https://www.jdsupra.com/legalnews/crypto-exchanges-the-sec-s-proposed-9029987) on what constitutes an exchange.

